Project Title: Improving Devel::Cover


Synopsis:

The Perl Foundation has participated in the Google Summer of Code for six of
the last seven years and has participated in all the Google Code-In
programmes.  This has always been a good experience for the students, for
Google, for TPF and for Perl in general.

This year we applied to take part in the GSoC programme again but,
unfortunately, we were not accepted.  It was explained to us that Google
wanted to allow a number of new organisations to take part and so many
organisations which had previously taken part were not accepted this year.  It
was further explained that this did not reflect upon TPF or upon our
application, and we were asked to apply again in future should Google continue
to run the programme.

However, we would like to ensure that the benefits we obtained from taking
part in GSoC in previous years are not lost this year, and so we would like to
run a Summer of Code programme ourselves this year.  This will be modelled
closely upon the Google Summer of Code but will have a few changes applicable
to our situation.

We would like to apply for a grant from TPF to fund this programme.


Benefits to Perl 5:

Each year that we have participated in GSoC and GCI has been an extraordinary
experience for both the students and the developers.  We plan to repeat this
great success.

Besides getting a fair bit of important work done during the summer, one of
our main focus points will be helping our students get to know and interact
with the different parts of our vast community.  We do everything we can to
encourage them to stay involved with their project and with the community
after the summer has finished, and to become a part of the Perl world as well
as the free software movement in general. We have had great success in doing
so with many of our previous students.

Our track record for the previous Summer of Code years is as follows:

2011: 6 out of 6 students passed
2010: 3/5
2009: 8/9
2008: 4/4
2006: 5/5
2005: 8 students entered, not sure how many passed

Out of these, a large number of our passing students have decided to stay
involved in their projects or have continued to contribute to different
projects within our community. Even one of the students we had to fail in the
finals has gone on to become one of our long term contributors.

We used to struggle somewhat with not getting the work produced by our
students merged into their respective projects in a timely manner, but we were
able to improve this situation considerably in the last rounds. To my
knowledge, all of last year's projects are either already shipped as part of
an official release or are close to being shipped in the very near future.

We believe our strategy for getting people involved with the Perl world and
becoming a part of it to have been rather successful. Many of our students have
decided to participate beyond the summer, remaining important contributors to
many different projects, even years after their participation in the Summer of
Code.

TODO: specific project examples?


Project Details:

We plan to follow the successful precedent set by Google and to model our
Summer of Code on theirs wherever that makes sense.

In practice, that means that we plan to hold the programme over the summer in
the northern hemisphere.  However, we plan to allow a little more flexibility
than Google on the precise dates in order to be able to be able to accommodate
the differing schedules of individual students.  Should this programme be
successful, we may consider expanding it to cover summer in the southern
hemisphere, or to other times.

We plan to pay each student $5,000 for their participation divided as follows:
 - $500  on acceptance
 - $2000 on successful completion of the first half of the programme
 - $2500 on successful completion of the entire programme
This is the same as for GSoC.

TODO: other details


Deliverable Elements:

We would like to have up to five students participating in our Summer of Code.
Obviously this depends on getting enough proposals of sufficient quality.  We
will work with students who contact us early enough to help them in this
process.

For each student we will provide a primary and a backup mentor to monitor and
assist in their progress.

Each students project will be responsible for their own deliverable elements.
We will ensure that these are appropriate before accepting the student.


Project Schedule:

We would like to be able to announce the programme as soon as possible and
accept applications up to May 14th 2012.  We will announce which students will
take part in the programme on May 21st and students will be able to officially
start work from that point onwards.  For each student we will determine an
official starting date between May 21st and July 9th.

Six weeks after the official project start there will be a mid-term evaluation
to determine whether the student continues into the second half of he
programme and receives the mid-term payment.  A further six weeks later the
final assessment will take place to determine whether the student has passed
and will receive their final payment.


Bio:

For both my prospective backup admin, Mark, and myself, it'll be the second year
of acting as an org-admin. Before that, I used to be involved as a mentor for
both the Perl Foundation and XMMS2, as well as a student for XMMS2 in an earlier
program. Many of our mentors have a similar depth of experience with GSoC.


Amount Requested: $25,000
